Hello again glorious God.
People in this video talked talking about world environment and directional light notes because we need
to make our game beautiful.
Let's go to the game.
One thing you may have noticed by the way take the camera preview off your game doesn't look like mine
because you've got a file here that I've managed to access delete.
I put that back show and file and then paste in default environment.
If you've managed to remove a default environment like I have here a change in me seeing my cat away
from the microphone.
There we go.
Thank you caboodle.
Can we move on our internet famous.
In my project settings and environment and right here default environment.
Mine is blank it shouldn't be some open a file default environment and I will go from a terrible washed
out grey to a terrible washed out blue.
What's happening here.
Well let's double click on default environment and take a look at ambient light.
The only light in our game is this ambient light and it's blue so we're seeing blue light with a little
bit of reflection from an artificial sun that's been procedurally generated in the sky.
K this doesn't look great so let's make it look great by using wild environments.
By the way what environment is technically in code.
You can make a world environment note but we're not going to do that.
And here's why world environments should be placed in Cameron notes.
If you try make a world environment you've seen tree God will give you a warning saying I'm ignoring
this.
However make sure you only place one world environment in the game.
Active at a time so in a scene anything that's being read on screen there can only be one wall environment.
You can't have three one in four hours at the same time.
Why.
Because environment controls background images like the sky the ground everything else and post-processing
things like how much reflection are we using ambient occlusion.
You can't have several settings saying contradictory things because God won't know which one to use.
Now I have just told you that I can only have one one varmint at a time and the world environment has
to be part of the camera so I know some of you right now are thinking to yourselves.
Hang on a minute you can.
You've said that world environments have to be in a camera and I can only have one camera active at
time.
So isn't it impossible to have multiple environments or first off.
That's a weird thing to think to yourself.
But Second off I may have stretched the truth a little bit you see.
Yes you can only have one camera active perv you put up to now that's never really been an issue because
we've never used multiple environments.
But there is something called viewport container.
That's a control node a gooey element and if you pull container can contain a viewport and you can have
many viewport on screen at that time and each one can have its own camera.
For example split screen if you wanted to have two players four players whatever on screen at same time
each would have its own viewport with its own active camera.
There are other instances maybe a mini map or a camera zooms in on an object or an inventory whatever
but you could have multiple cameras active in your game each within their own viewport.
And if you did you can only have one wild environment active at a time.
Otherwise you can hear all kinds of problems.
So enough of that.
Let's actually look at this environment the first and do it go into my camera.
I could create a new environment.
I'm actually going to specify you using default environment.
I don't need to specify that but I'm going to double click on my default environment and take a look
at the options.
Well if I go to clear colour that's what I was using before.
Right so this grey washed out thing that's happening here and I could change my clear colour in project
settings.
It's actually right here change to black or pink or whatever.
I don't like that colour some of that undo what I've just done.
There it is.
This is not great.
Custom colour.
I could have a background colour in the background right so well have one to rent the game is going
to render a blank colour.
Everything is going to be this weird terracotta paint.
And this by the way is a really ugly game right.
I've got this storm blue thing no shadows and this bright pink nickel that migrate online.
Not gonna use that.
We could also use a sky in other two different kinds of skies we have right now we're using a procedural
sky procedural skies when I tell it.
Okay here's your top colour.
Here's your horizon colour and do the same for the ground.
Actually you can undo those two changes made.
We don't have to do that.
If I clear this and make a new panorama sky I could but but texture in here.
If you load in texture here leg put in an e.
Yea right hechsher that's a 360 degree tax.
Plane hills or a shopping centre.
You'll find some of these online.
When I'm going to using these in this game because were actually in a pull back rally.
So for now I'm just going to pick a standard colour and myself colour.
For now I'm going to put as black shop black and put the energy to zero.
It's sending none of its energy over.
Now let's take a look at ambient light.
I've got this thing here called Sky contribution and I've set my sky contribution to zero.
If it's one it's saying all of the ambient energy should be coming from the background.
There isn't any so it's not doing that.
My ambient colour is what's the colour of anything that isn't lit.
Okay so right now there are no lights in-game and everything is this slate grey colour.
Well what happens if we added lighting.
Let's do that make a brand new simple node.
Some shalah get right to the top and select node and call this all lights and within that I can add
a new light source.
I type in light see what our options are.
We have three types of light we can use.
We can use an omni light that's a light source that shows light in all directions at the same time.
It's affected by things like range.
So think of a light bulb or a candle light.
Single light source or directions.
We have a spot light which is like that but only in one direction so you give a direction and an angle
and everything else is like omni light and then we have directional light that has a position and it
has a direction but it doesn't have an angle something like the sun or the moon.
Right something very far away it casts light equally at all things in this direction.
So let's create that.
And you know move this up a bit and you can see the widget has position and it has rotation and it has
this big arrow that shoots the direction it's going.
So let's move this over here to this corner and nice and high.
I'm not going spend too much time on that light theory here because frankly that's a whole course by
itself.
In fact we have a course on life theory for unity which you should check out if you're interested and
going to angle us this way.
Let's see you there.
Now you'll notice I've rotated on the green right on the horizontal plane.
I have two more axes and I want to angle this.
So Amy saw the player but if I try angling using these it's actually quite difficult to aim properly.
That's because I'm using global mode right.
I'm rotating on global axes over here.
This little cube icon will change me to a local mode.
And here the axis of rotation axis rotation the Axis and at one of us are relative to the object.
Not the world so now on top down I'm actually tilting down and you can actually see the light hitting
it.
It also knows when to move up I'm moving up locally.
When I moved back to global and it's worth switching between global and local so you can have really
fine control when you're trying to rotate in position three objects.
Sometimes you want to do it locally sometimes you want do globally and that's looking pretty good.
Okay so this isn't well it yet because it's very flat.
There's no shadows slurring my words for no reason.
Let's put the shadows on their shadows enabled it took a little second.
Alright some basic tips for you.
First in nature.
Shadows are not black.
There is no such thing as pure black or pure white in nature.
You could possibly get away with it in a game like this because we are going to like a static but I'm
going to make this a deep purple shadow.
It's a very subtle difference but it's worth making.
Next my light I got pure white light pure white will work.
I actually make this a little bit brighter one point five but I'm actually gonna make it slightly yellow
something over to a yellow one.
Amber There we go.
This looks good so it's just slightly in the amber and that gives it a more like kind of a feel.
Let's go back into a wild environment and check out ambient light.
I really like wants to be sort of her round here like the Light Blues.
Reason I'm doing this is I want the unlit areas of the game to have a not quite opposite but kind of
opposite.
The reason why is the unlit area should not have the light that was shining in it let me try explain
that slightly better.
My directional light is slightly yellow.
I want less yellow in the unlit areas so that makes sense.
So the shadow is the bit that the light isn't hitting.
I guess this is starting to look reasonable.
I me press play.
Now we're not going to have the black background the game we are going to add some actual scenery.
So I'm going to put some clutter in makes that better.
But it's coming along nicely.
It'll look even better if I turn the emission off because we see we're doing so limited any mission
off the ball.
Let's go to ball up open the scene just open the texture but never mind.
Got a mesh instance.
Click on the mash click on the textured emission off the of the ball looks like now and we can see it's
got much better in natural.
Great.
Cool.
Before we go any further I'd like you to set this up now right now.
This is still looking a little washed out there from two weeks in the making.
But we're off to a good start so what I'd like you to do is add beauty to your world which is the most
uplifting.
Challenge title I've ever written.
I'd like you to set the world environment and directional light of your game.
The key here is to pick a light colour.
I've gone for something that feels a bit like a late afternoon so slightly yellowy and an ambient colour.
That's something that's going to be not that I'd suggest something a grey or dark of white black because
that means no ambient light.
There's no such thing as black light.
So was the video tweak these values and when you happy with them come back and show you where I go from
here.
And welcome back.
Okay so the first thing I do is I might make this a little bit brighter as a to my directional light.
Actually not only that where it is.
Instead I'm gonna make sure that things are turned shaded.
Let's look our materials I type of material to search every material and clean the ones we haven't looked
at yet we'll come up let's open the ball again.
To parameters and switch from barely shading to shading some to diffuse mode or switch to shading.
What's done is it's just changed what lit and not let means it's got that transition.
We show that again.
His birley Look at that smooth gradient right there's a much more natural thing in his tone.
That's what we call sickle cell shaded.
That's a really clear you are lit.
You are not and there's nothing in between.
A save that because maybe you need to see that go to cube dude.
I wonder the same thing for Q2.
So change you to to unshaded.
And he's a lot brighter as they save him and do the same for kudu Louis.
Though we don't see that yet.
I'm pretty sure I've already got two enchaining in for the goals I have.
And what about the pitch doing the pitching shaded.
Actually not sure that we do.
Let's see what it looks like.
See that's very very bright.
I think we actually want that not to shade.
But now we play it fast play.
OK.
Cube dude needs to be able to move around a bit more.
But this is starting to look better.
Why do you want to do is change the camera position.
But the ball's looking nice and stylized.
Q Do is looking a little washed out stylize I should think I've got a little bit too much light on him.
It's turn the light down slightly.
Yeah but then when Kimberly starts moving this look a little more playful right now he just looks like
a magnetized piece I guess.
But it's starting to come along quite nicely.
That's a nice start and put the back red elements in.
Can be easier to tweak these values.
But here we are some shadows some two shading in our game ready to go.
Which brings us to the end of the video in this video with looked at how to change the default environment
and what to do if you like yarn and you've deleted it.
We've looked at how to use world environment and how to use directional light nodes and look to have
a change to the sharing method of a special material.
I keep snipping my words as the sixth time I've tried to say this.
I've given up saying it is now recorded for posterity and just slurring the words shading method of
spacial material.
I am the champion before I sign off share levels.
What have you got.
Have you got a nice procedural sky in the background.
Did you go for complete different look.
Are you using too in shading.
Did you change the pitch material.
Show your progress so far I'm dying to see what you guys have made and excellent work.
I'll see you in the next video.